README.md, before:

<p align="center">
    <img src="docs/img/kakarot_github_banner.png" height="200">
</p>
<div align="center">
  <h3 align="center">
  EVM interpreter written in Cairo, a sort of ZK-EVM emulator, leveraging STARK
  proof system.
  </h3>
</div>

![GitHub Workflow Status](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/sayajin-labs/kakarot/test.yml?branch=main)
![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/license/abdelhamidbakhta/kakarot?style=flat-square&logo=github)
![GitHub contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/abdelhamidbakhta/kakarot?logo=github&style=flat-square)
![GitHub top language](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/abdelhamidbakhta/kakarot?style=flat-square)
[![Telegram](https://img.shields.io/badge/telegram-Kakarot-yellow.svg?logo=telegram)](https://t.me/KakarotZkEvm)
![Contributions welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/contributions-welcome-orange.svg)
[![Read FAQ](https://img.shields.io/badge/Ask%20Question-Read%20FAQ-000000)](https://www.newton.so/view?tags=kakarot)
![GitHub Repo stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/abdelhamidbakhta/kakarot?style=social)
[![Twitter Follow](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/KakarotZkEvm?style=social)](https://twitter.com/KakarotZkEvm)

<div align="center">

**Kakarot** is an Ethereum Virtual Machine written in Cairo. It means it can be
deployed on StarkNet, a layer 2 scaling solution for Ethereum, and run an EVM
bytecode program. Hence, Kakarot can be used to run Ethereum smart contracts on
StarkNet. Kakarot is the super sayajin zkEVM! Why? Because:
`It's over 9000!!!!!`.

It is a work in progress, and it is not ready for production.

[Getting started](#getting-started) • [Supported opcodes](#supported-opcodes) •
[Build](#build) • [Test](#test) •
[Report a bug](https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/issues/new?assignees=&labels=bug&template=01_BUG_REPORT.md&title=bug%3A+)
• [Questions](https://www.newton.so/view?tags=kakarot)

</div>

![](docs/img/kakarot.gif)

## Supported opcodes

```mermaid
%%{init: {'theme': 'forest', 'themeVariables': { 'darkMode': 'false'}}}%%

pie title Kakarot EMV opcodes support (142 / 142)
    "Supported" : 142
    "Not supported" : 0
```

Here is the list of supported opcodes: [opcodes](docs/supported_opcodes.md)

## Documentation

### Architecture

![](docs/img/architecture.png)

- ✅ Kakarot is a smart contract, deployed on Starknet (goerli). It is written
  in Cairo.

- ✅ Kakarot can: (a) execute arbitrary EVM bytecode, (b) deploy an EVM smart
  contract as is, (c) call a Kakarot-deployed EVM smart contract's functions
  (views and write methods).

- ✅ Kakarot is an EVM bytecode interpreter.

- ❌ Kakarot is not a blockchain

- ❌ Kakarot is not a compiler. Check out
  [Warp](https://github.com/NethermindEth/warp) for a Solidity -> Cairo
  transpiler

### Main execution flow

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    title Simple bytecode execution flow example: [PUSH1 0x01 PUSH1 0x02 ADD]
    actor User
    participant Kakarot
    participant ExecutionContext
    participant EVMInstructions
    participant ArithmeticOperations
    participant PushOperations
    participant Stack
    User->>+Kakarot: execute(value, code, calldata)
    Kakarot->>+EVMInstructions: generate_instructions()
    EVMInstructions->>-Kakarot: instructions
    Kakarot->>+ExecutionContext: compute_intrinsic_gas_cost()
    ExecutionContext->>-Kakarot: ctx
    Kakarot->>Kakarot: run(instructions, ctx)
    loop opcode
        Kakarot->>+EVMInstructions: decode_and_execute(instructions, ctx)
        EVMInstructions->>EVMInstructions: retrieve the current program counter
        Note over EVMInstructions: revert if pc < 0, stop if pc > length of code
        EVMInstructions->>EVMInstructions: read opcode associated function from instruction set
        Note over PushOperations, Stack: x2 PUSH a=1, PUSH b=2
        EVMInstructions->>+PushOperations: exec_push1(ctx)
        PushOperations->>Stack: push(stack, element)
        PushOperations->>-EVMInstructions: ctx
        EVMInstructions->>+ArithmeticOperations: exec_add(ctx)
        Note over PushOperations, Stack: x2 POP a, POP b
        ArithmeticOperations->>Stack: pop(stack)
        Stack->>ArithmeticOperations: element
        ArithmeticOperations->>Stack: push(stack, result)
        ArithmeticOperations->>-EVMInstructions: ctx
        EVMInstructions->>-Kakarot: ctx
    end
    Kakarot->>-User: ctx
```

### Execution sample

Execution of a simple EVM bytecode program on Kakarot.

The bytecode is the following:

```console
6001600503600301610166016002026105b40460020500
```

Which corresponds to the following EVM program:

```console
0x60 - PUSH1
0x60 - PUSH1
0x03 - SUB
0x60 - PUSH1
0x01 - ADD
0x61 - PUSH2
0x01 - ADD
0x60 - PUSH1
0x02 - MUL
0x61 - PUSH2
0x04 - DIV
0x60 - PUSH1
0x05 - SDIV
0x00 - STOP
```

Here is the execution trace of the program on Kakarot:

![Tutorial](docs/img/sample_execution.png)

## Getting started

To contribute, please check out
[the contribution guide](./docs/CONTRIBUTING.md).

```bash
# install poetry if you don't have it already
# curl -sSL https://install.python-poetry.org | python3 -
make setup
```

## Build

To build the Cairo files:

```bash
make build
```

To build the test Solidity smart contracts:

```bash
make build-foundry
```

## Test

Running the tests requires to have docker available in the machine. Check
[their doc](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) for how to install it.

```bash
# Run all tests
make test

# Run only unit tests
make test-units

# Run only integration tests
make test-integration

# Run a specific test file
pytest <PATH_TO_FILE>  # with pytest
python3 -m unittest <PATH_TO_FILE>  # with unittest

# Run a specific test mark (markers in pyproject.toml)
make run-test-mark mark=<MARK>
make run-test-mark-log mark=<MARK> # with log
```

Test architecture is the following:

- tests/unit/src contains cairo tests for each cairo function in the kakarot
  codebase
- tests/integration/bytecode contains python tests for kakarot execute()
  function with forged bytecode
- tests/integration/solidity_contracts contains python tests for solidity
  contracts that are compiled, deployed on kakarot local node and interacted
  with kakarot execute_at_address()

## License

**kakarot** is released under the [MIT](LICENSE).

## Security

Kakarot follows good practices of security, but 100% security cannot be assured.
Kakarot is provided **"as is"** without any **warranty**. Use at your own risk.

_For more information and to report security issues, please refer to our
[security documentation](docs/SECURITY.md)._

## Questions / FAQ

Questions are welcome! If you have any questions regarding Kakarot, feel free to
ask them using [Newton](https://www.newton.so/view?tags=kakarot).

### FAQ

- [What is Kakarot, the zkEVM written in Cairo?](https://www.newton.so/view/6384d1e75bfa675b854c3228)
- [Is Kakarot zkEVM a blockchain?](https://www.newton.so/view/6384d22a5bfa675b854c3229)
- [When will Kakarot zkEVM launch on mainnet?](https://www.newton.so/view/6384d25fac8f7c40f4f144fd)
- [Does Kakarot zkEVM have a token?](https://www.newton.so/view/6384d2815bfa675b854c322a)
- [Is Kakarot zkEVM a smart contract or a blockchain?](https://www.newton.so/view/6384d2a0ac8f7c40f4f144fe)
- [Is Kakarot a Starkware project?](https://www.newton.so/view/6384d2be5bfa675b854c322b)
- [Is Kakarot part of the Starknet ecosystem?](https://www.newton.so/view#:~:text=Is%20Kakarot%20part%20of%20the%20Starknet%20ecosystem%3F)
- [Will Kakarot be an L3 on top of the Starknet validity rollup?](https://www.newton.so/view/6384d3235bfa675b854c322c)
- [Can I add Kakarot to my metamask?](https://www.newton.so/view/6384d38fac8f7c40f4f14500)
- [Is Kakarot equivalent to Arbitrum?](https://www.newton.so/view/6384d3d85bfa675b854c322d)

## Contributing

First off, thanks for taking the time to contribute! Contributions are what make
the open-source community such an amazing place to learn, inspire, and create.
Any contributions you make will benefit everybody else and are **greatly
appreciated**.

Please read [our contribution guidelines](docs/CONTRIBUTING.md), and thank you
for being involved!

## Contributors

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:START - Do not remove or modify this section -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable -->
<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/abdelhamidbakhta"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/45264458?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Abdel @ StarkWare "/><br /><sub><b>Abdel @ StarkWare </b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=abdelhamidbakhta" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=abdelhamidbakhta" title="Tests">⚠️</a> <a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=abdelhamidbakhta" title="Documentation">📖</a> <a href="#infra-abdelhamidbakhta" title="Infrastructure (Hosting, Build-Tools, etc)">🚇</a> <a href="#projectManagement-abdelhamidbakhta" title="Project Management">📆</a> <a href="#mentoring-abdelhamidbakhta" title="Mentoring">🧑‍🏫</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/LucasLvy"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/70894690?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Lucas"/><br /><sub><b>Lucas</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=LucasLvy" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=LucasLvy" title="Tests">⚠️</a> <a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=LucasLvy" title="Documentation">📖</a> <a href="#mentoring-LucasLvy" title="Mentoring">🧑‍🏫</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/0xMentorNotAPseudo"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/4404287?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Mentor Reka"/><br /><sub><b>Mentor Reka</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=0xMentorNotAPseudo" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=0xMentorNotAPseudo" title="Tests">⚠️</a> <a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=0xMentorNotAPseudo" title="Documentation">📖</a> <a href="#infra-0xMentorNotAPseudo" title="Infrastructure (Hosting, Build-Tools, etc)">🚇</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/danilowhk"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/12735159?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="danilowhk"/><br /><sub><b>danilowhk</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=danilowhk" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=danilowhk" title="Tests">⚠️</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://linktr.ee/lenny.codes"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/46480795?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Lenny"/><br /><sub><b>Lenny</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=0xlny" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=0xlny" title="Tests">⚠️</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/florian-bellotti"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/7861901?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Florian Bellotti"/><br /><sub><b>Florian Bellotti</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=florian-bellotti" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=florian-bellotti" title="Tests">⚠️</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/l-henri"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/22731646?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Henri"/><br /><sub><b>Henri</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=l-henri" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=l-henri" title="Tests">⚠️</a></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/TotalPizza"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/50166315?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="FreshPizza"/><br /><sub><b>FreshPizza</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=TotalPizza" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=TotalPizza" title="Tests">⚠️</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/clementwalter"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/18620296?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Clément Walter"/><br /><sub><b>Clément Walter</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=ClementWalter" title="Documentation">📖</a> <a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=ClementWalter" title="Tests">⚠️</a> <a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=ClementWalter" title="Code">💻</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/richwarner"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/1719742?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Rich Warner"/><br /><sub><b>Rich Warner</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=richwarner" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=richwarner" title="Tests">⚠️</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/pscott"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/30843220?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="pscott"/><br /><sub><b>pscott</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=pscott" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=pscott" title="Tests">⚠️</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/Eikix"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/66871571?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Elias Tazartes"/><br /><sub><b>Elias Tazartes</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=Eikix" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=Eikix" title="Tests">⚠️</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/Riad15l"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/116729712?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Riad15l"/><br /><sub><b>Riad15l</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=Riad15l" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=Riad15l" title="Tests">⚠️</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/tyler-smith"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/2145522?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Tyler Smith"/><br /><sub><b>Tyler Smith</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=tyler-smith" title="Tests">⚠️</a></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/spapinistarkware"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/43779613?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Shahar Papini"/><br /><sub><b>Shahar Papini</b></sub></a><br /><a href="#mentoring-spapinistarkware" title="Mentoring">🧑‍🏫</a> <a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=spapinistarkware" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=spapinistarkware" title="Tests">⚠️</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/Riad-Quadratic"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/116729712?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Riad &#124; Quadratic"/><br /><sub><b>Riad &#124; Quadratic</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=Riad-Quadratic" title="Code">💻</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/thomas-quadratic"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/116874460?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="thomas-quadratic"/><br /><sub><b>thomas-quadratic</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=thomas-quadratic" title="Code">💻</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/pedro-bergamini-611496160/"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/41773103?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Pedro Bergamini"/><br /><sub><b>Pedro Bergamini</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=pedrobergamini" title="Code">💻</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/ptisserand"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/544314?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="ptisserand"/><br /><sub><b>ptisserand</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=ptisserand" title="Code">💻</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/hurrikaanig"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/37303126?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="TurcFort07"/><br /><sub><b>TurcFort07</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=hurrikaanig" title="Code">💻</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/mnemba-chambuya"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/22321030?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Mnemba Chambuya"/><br /><sub><b>Mnemba Chambuya</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=mnekx" title="Code">💻</a></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/matthieuauger"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/1172099?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Matthieu Auger"/><br /><sub><b>Matthieu Auger</b></sub></a><br /><a href="#mentoring-matthieuauger" title="Mentoring">🧑‍🏫</a> <a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=matthieuauger" title="Tests">⚠️</a> <a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=matthieuauger" title="Code">💻</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/ftupas"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/35031356?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="ftupas"/><br /><sub><b>ftupas</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=ftupas" title="Code">💻</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/jobez"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/615197?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="johann bestowrous"/><br /><sub><b>johann bestowrous</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=jobez" title="Code">💻</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://seshanth.xyz/"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/35675963?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Seshanth.S"/><br /><sub><b>Seshanth.S</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=seshanthS" title="Code">💻</a></td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<!-- markdownlint-restore -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:END -->

<p align="center">
    <img src="docs/img/kakarot_github_banner_footer.png" height="200">
</p>

Commit message:

Use foundry output files in for tests and remove old docker build (#410)
## Pull request type 

Please check the type of change your PR introduces:

- [ ] Bugfix
- [ ] Feature
- [ ] Code style update (formatting, renaming)
- [x] Refactoring (no functional changes, no api changes)
- [ ] Build related changes
- [ ] Documentation content changes
- [ ] Other (please describe):

## What is the current behavior?

Solidity files are duplicated and foundry is not used to compile files
used for testing.

## What is the new behavior?

Use foundry for building all the solidity files in the projet and make
these builds available for integration tests.

## Other information

I removed the scripts using docker that became useless since it's a
single command with forge, so added it directly to the Makefile

Time spent on this PR:  0.5

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
    <img src="docs/img/kakarot_github_banner.png" height="200">
</p>
<div align="center">
  <h3 align="center">
  EVM interpreter written in Cairo, a sort of ZK-EVM emulator, leveraging STARK
  proof system.
  </h3>
</div>

![GitHub Workflow Status](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/sayajin-labs/kakarot/test.yml?branch=main)
![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/license/abdelhamidbakhta/kakarot?style=flat-square&logo=github)
![GitHub contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/abdelhamidbakhta/kakarot?logo=github&style=flat-square)
![GitHub top language](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/abdelhamidbakhta/kakarot?style=flat-square)
[![Telegram](https://img.shields.io/badge/telegram-Kakarot-yellow.svg?logo=telegram)](https://t.me/KakarotZkEvm)
![Contributions welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/contributions-welcome-orange.svg)
[![Read FAQ](https://img.shields.io/badge/Ask%20Question-Read%20FAQ-000000)](https://www.newton.so/view?tags=kakarot)
![GitHub Repo stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/abdelhamidbakhta/kakarot?style=social)
[![Twitter Follow](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/KakarotZkEvm?style=social)](https://twitter.com/KakarotZkEvm)

<div align="center">

**Kakarot** is an Ethereum Virtual Machine written in Cairo. It means it can be
deployed on StarkNet, a layer 2 scaling solution for Ethereum, and run any EVM
bytecode program. Hence, Kakarot can be used to run Ethereum smart contracts on
StarkNet. Kakarot is the super sayajin zkEVM! Why? Because:
`It's over 9000!!!!!`.

It is a work in progress, and it is not ready for production.

[Getting started](#getting-started) • [Supported opcodes](#supported-opcodes) •
[Build](#build) • [Test](#test) •
[Report a bug](https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/issues/new?assignees=&labels=bug&template=01_BUG_REPORT.md&title=bug%3A+)
• [Questions](https://www.newton.so/view?tags=kakarot)

</div>

![](docs/img/kakarot.gif)

## Supported opcodes

```mermaid
%%{init: {'theme': 'forest', 'themeVariables': { 'darkMode': 'false'}}}%%

pie title Kakarot EMV opcodes support (142 / 142)
    "Supported" : 142
    "Not supported" : 0
```

Here is the list of supported opcodes: [opcodes](docs/supported_opcodes.md)

## Documentation

### Architecture

![](docs/img/architecture.png)

- ✅ Kakarot is a smart contract, deployed on Starknet (goerli). It is written
  in Cairo.

- ✅ Kakarot can: (a) execute arbitrary EVM bytecode, (b) deploy an EVM smart
  contract as is, (c) call a Kakarot-deployed EVM smart contract's functions
  (views and write methods).

- ✅ Kakarot is an EVM bytecode interpreter.

- ❌ Kakarot is not a blockchain

- ❌ Kakarot is not a compiler. Check out
  [Warp](https://github.com/NethermindEth/warp) for a Solidity -> Cairo
  transpiler

### Main execution flow

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    title Simple bytecode execution flow example: [PUSH1 0x01 PUSH1 0x02 ADD]
    actor User
    participant Kakarot
    participant ExecutionContext
    participant EVMInstructions
    participant ArithmeticOperations
    participant PushOperations
    participant Stack
    User->>+Kakarot: execute(value, code, calldata)
    Kakarot->>+EVMInstructions: generate_instructions()
    EVMInstructions->>-Kakarot: instructions
    Kakarot->>+ExecutionContext: compute_intrinsic_gas_cost()
    ExecutionContext->>-Kakarot: ctx
    Kakarot->>Kakarot: run(instructions, ctx)
    loop opcode
        Kakarot->>+EVMInstructions: decode_and_execute(instructions, ctx)
        EVMInstructions->>EVMInstructions: retrieve the current program counter
        Note over EVMInstructions: revert if pc < 0, stop if pc > length of code
        EVMInstructions->>EVMInstructions: read opcode associated function from instruction set
        Note over PushOperations, Stack: x2 PUSH a=1, PUSH b=2
        EVMInstructions->>+PushOperations: exec_push1(ctx)
        PushOperations->>Stack: push(stack, element)
        PushOperations->>-EVMInstructions: ctx
        EVMInstructions->>+ArithmeticOperations: exec_add(ctx)
        Note over PushOperations, Stack: x2 POP a, POP b
        ArithmeticOperations->>Stack: pop(stack)
        Stack->>ArithmeticOperations: element
        ArithmeticOperations->>Stack: push(stack, result)
        ArithmeticOperations->>-EVMInstructions: ctx
        EVMInstructions->>-Kakarot: ctx
    end
    Kakarot->>-User: ctx
```

### Execution sample

Execution of a simple EVM bytecode program on Kakarot.

The bytecode is the following:

```console
6001600503600301610166016002026105b40460020500
```

Which corresponds to the following EVM program:

```console
0x60 - PUSH1
0x60 - PUSH1
0x03 - SUB
0x60 - PUSH1
0x01 - ADD
0x61 - PUSH2
0x01 - ADD
0x60 - PUSH1
0x02 - MUL
0x61 - PUSH2
0x04 - DIV
0x60 - PUSH1
0x05 - SDIV
0x00 - STOP
```

Here is the execution trace of the program on Kakarot:

![Tutorial](docs/img/sample_execution.png)

## Getting started

To contribute, please check out
[the contribution guide](./docs/CONTRIBUTING.md).

```bash
# install poetry if you don't have it already
# curl -sSL https://install.python-poetry.org | python3 -
make setup
```

## Build

To build the Cairo files:

```bash
make build
```

To build the test Solidity smart contracts:

```bash
# install foundry if you don't have it already
# curl -L https://foundry.paradigm.xyz | bash
# foundryup
make build-sol
```

## Test

```bash
# Run all tests
make test

# Run only unit tests
make test-units

# Run only integration tests
make test-integration

# Run a specific test file
pytest <PATH_TO_FILE>  # with pytest
python3 -m unittest <PATH_TO_FILE>  # with unittest

# Run a specific test mark (markers in pyproject.toml)
make run-test-mark mark=<MARK>
make run-test-mark-log mark=<MARK> # with log
```

Test architecture is the following:

- tests/unit/src contains cairo tests for each cairo function in the kakarot
  codebase
- tests/integration/bytecode contains python tests for kakarot execute()
  function with forged bytecode
- tests/integration/solidity_contracts contains python tests for solidity
  contracts that are compiled, deployed on kakarot local node and interacted
  with kakarot execute_at_address()

## License

**kakarot** is released under the [MIT](LICENSE).

## Security

Kakarot follows good practices of security, but 100% security cannot be assured.
Kakarot is provided **"as is"** without any **warranty**. Use at your own risk.

_For more information and to report security issues, please refer to our
[security documentation](docs/SECURITY.md)._

## Questions / FAQ

Questions are welcome! If you have any questions regarding Kakarot, feel free to
ask them using [Newton](https://www.newton.so/view?tags=kakarot).

### FAQ

- [What is Kakarot, the zkEVM written in Cairo?](https://www.newton.so/view/6384d1e75bfa675b854c3228)
- [Is Kakarot zkEVM a blockchain?](https://www.newton.so/view/6384d22a5bfa675b854c3229)
- [When will Kakarot zkEVM launch on mainnet?](https://www.newton.so/view/6384d25fac8f7c40f4f144fd)
- [Does Kakarot zkEVM have a token?](https://www.newton.so/view/6384d2815bfa675b854c322a)
- [Is Kakarot zkEVM a smart contract or a blockchain?](https://www.newton.so/view/6384d2a0ac8f7c40f4f144fe)
- [Is Kakarot a Starkware project?](https://www.newton.so/view/6384d2be5bfa675b854c322b)
- [Is Kakarot part of the Starknet ecosystem?](https://www.newton.so/view#:~:text=Is%20Kakarot%20part%20of%20the%20Starknet%20ecosystem%3F)
- [Will Kakarot be an L3 on top of the Starknet validity rollup?](https://www.newton.so/view/6384d3235bfa675b854c322c)
- [Can I add Kakarot to my metamask?](https://www.newton.so/view/6384d38fac8f7c40f4f14500)
- [Is Kakarot equivalent to Arbitrum?](https://www.newton.so/view/6384d3d85bfa675b854c322d)

## Contributing

First off, thanks for taking the time to contribute! Contributions are what make
the open-source community such an amazing place to learn, inspire, and create.
Any contributions you make will benefit everybody else and are **greatly
appreciated**.

Please read [our contribution guidelines](docs/CONTRIBUTING.md), and thank you
for being involved!

## Contributors

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:START - Do not remove or modify this section -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable -->
<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/abdelhamidbakhta"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/45264458?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Abdel @ StarkWare "/><br /><sub><b>Abdel @ StarkWare </b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=abdelhamidbakhta" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=abdelhamidbakhta" title="Tests">⚠️</a> <a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=abdelhamidbakhta" title="Documentation">📖</a> <a href="#infra-abdelhamidbakhta" title="Infrastructure (Hosting, Build-Tools, etc)">🚇</a> <a href="#projectManagement-abdelhamidbakhta" title="Project Management">📆</a> <a href="#mentoring-abdelhamidbakhta" title="Mentoring">🧑‍🏫</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/LucasLvy"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/70894690?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Lucas"/><br /><sub><b>Lucas</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=LucasLvy" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=LucasLvy" title="Tests">⚠️</a> <a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=LucasLvy" title="Documentation">📖</a> <a href="#mentoring-LucasLvy" title="Mentoring">🧑‍🏫</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/0xMentorNotAPseudo"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/4404287?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Mentor Reka"/><br /><sub><b>Mentor Reka</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=0xMentorNotAPseudo" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=0xMentorNotAPseudo" title="Tests">⚠️</a> <a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=0xMentorNotAPseudo" title="Documentation">📖</a> <a href="#infra-0xMentorNotAPseudo" title="Infrastructure (Hosting, Build-Tools, etc)">🚇</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/danilowhk"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/12735159?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="danilowhk"/><br /><sub><b>danilowhk</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=danilowhk" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=danilowhk" title="Tests">⚠️</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://linktr.ee/lenny.codes"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/46480795?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Lenny"/><br /><sub><b>Lenny</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=0xlny" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=0xlny" title="Tests">⚠️</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/florian-bellotti"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/7861901?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Florian Bellotti"/><br /><sub><b>Florian Bellotti</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=florian-bellotti" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=florian-bellotti" title="Tests">⚠️</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/l-henri"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/22731646?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Henri"/><br /><sub><b>Henri</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=l-henri" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=l-henri" title="Tests">⚠️</a></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/TotalPizza"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/50166315?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="FreshPizza"/><br /><sub><b>FreshPizza</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=TotalPizza" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=TotalPizza" title="Tests">⚠️</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/clementwalter"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/18620296?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Clément Walter"/><br /><sub><b>Clément Walter</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=ClementWalter" title="Documentation">📖</a> <a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=ClementWalter" title="Tests">⚠️</a> <a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=ClementWalter" title="Code">💻</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/richwarner"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/1719742?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Rich Warner"/><br /><sub><b>Rich Warner</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=richwarner" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=richwarner" title="Tests">⚠️</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/pscott"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/30843220?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="pscott"/><br /><sub><b>pscott</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=pscott" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=pscott" title="Tests">⚠️</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/Eikix"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/66871571?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Elias Tazartes"/><br /><sub><b>Elias Tazartes</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=Eikix" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=Eikix" title="Tests">⚠️</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/Riad15l"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/116729712?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Riad15l"/><br /><sub><b>Riad15l</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=Riad15l" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=Riad15l" title="Tests">⚠️</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/tyler-smith"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/2145522?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Tyler Smith"/><br /><sub><b>Tyler Smith</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=tyler-smith" title="Tests">⚠️</a></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/spapinistarkware"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/43779613?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Shahar Papini"/><br /><sub><b>Shahar Papini</b></sub></a><br /><a href="#mentoring-spapinistarkware" title="Mentoring">🧑‍🏫</a> <a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=spapinistarkware" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=spapinistarkware" title="Tests">⚠️</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/Riad-Quadratic"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/116729712?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Riad &#124; Quadratic"/><br /><sub><b>Riad &#124; Quadratic</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=Riad-Quadratic" title="Code">💻</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/thomas-quadratic"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/116874460?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="thomas-quadratic"/><br /><sub><b>thomas-quadratic</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=thomas-quadratic" title="Code">💻</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/pedro-bergamini-611496160/"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/41773103?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Pedro Bergamini"/><br /><sub><b>Pedro Bergamini</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=pedrobergamini" title="Code">💻</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/ptisserand"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/544314?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="ptisserand"/><br /><sub><b>ptisserand</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=ptisserand" title="Code">💻</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/hurrikaanig"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/37303126?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="TurcFort07"/><br /><sub><b>TurcFort07</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=hurrikaanig" title="Code">💻</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/mnemba-chambuya"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/22321030?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Mnemba Chambuya"/><br /><sub><b>Mnemba Chambuya</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=mnekx" title="Code">💻</a></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/matthieuauger"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/1172099?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Matthieu Auger"/><br /><sub><b>Matthieu Auger</b></sub></a><br /><a href="#mentoring-matthieuauger" title="Mentoring">🧑‍🏫</a> <a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=matthieuauger" title="Tests">⚠️</a> <a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=matthieuauger" title="Code">💻</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/ftupas"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/35031356?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="ftupas"/><br /><sub><b>ftupas</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=ftupas" title="Code">💻</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://github.com/jobez"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/615197?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="johann bestowrous"/><br /><sub><b>johann bestowrous</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=jobez" title="Code">💻</a></td>
      <td align="center" valign="top" width="14.28%"><a href="https://seshanth.xyz/"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/35675963?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt="Seshanth.S"/><br /><sub><b>Seshanth.S</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/sayajin-labs/kakarot/commits?author=seshanthS" title="Code">💻</a></td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<!-- markdownlint-restore -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:END -->

<p align="center">
    <img src="docs/img/kakarot_github_banner_footer.png" height="200">
</p>
